                with depressive disorders;
                    ``(C) the effectiveness of interventions designed,
                tested, and evaluated;
                    ``(D) other information, as the Secretary may
                require.
            ``(3) Submission of data to the administrator.--The
        coordinating center shall submit to the Administrator the data
        and financial information gathered under paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Publication using data from the database.--A Center,
        or an individual affiliated with a Center, may publish

[[Page 124 STAT. 988]]

        findings using the data described in paragraph (2) only if such
        center submits such data to the coordinating center, as required
        under such paragraph.

    ``(e) Establishment of Standards; Report Cards and Recommendations;
Third Party Review.--
            ``(1) Establishment of standards.--The Secretary, acting
        through the Administrator, shall establish performance standards
        for--
                    ``(A) each Center; and
                    ``(B) the network of Centers as a whole.
            ``(2) Report cards.--The Secretary, acting through the
        Administrator, shall--
                    ``(A) for each Center, not later than 3 years after
                the date on which such center of excellence is
                established and annually thereafter, issue a report card
                to the coordinating center to rate the performance of
                such Center; and
                    ``(B) not later than 3 years after the date on which
                the first grant is awarded under subsection (b)(1) and
                annually thereafter, issue a report card to Congress to
                rate the performance of the network of centers of
                excellence as a whole.
            ``(3) Recommendations.--Based upon the report cards
        described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall, not later than
        September 30, 2015--
                    ``(A) make recommendations to the Centers regarding
                improvements such centers shall make; and
                    ``(B) make recommendations to Congress for expanding
                the Centers to serve individuals with other types of
                mental disorders.
            ``(4) Third party review.--Not later than 3 years after the
        date on which the first grant is awarded under subsection (b)(1)
        and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall arrange for an
        independent third party to conduct an evaluation of the network
        of Centers to ensure that such centers are meeting the goals of
        this section.

    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--To carry out this section, there are
        authorized to be appropriated--
                    ``(A) $100,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2011
                through 2015; and
                    ``(B) $150,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2016
                through 2020.
            ``(2) Allocation of funds authorized.--
        <<NOTE: Determination.>> Of the amount appropriated under
        paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall determine
        the allocation of each Center receiving a grant under this
        section, but in no case may the allocation be more than
        $5,000,000, except that the Secretary may allocate not more than
        $10,000,000 to the coordinating center.''.

SEC. 10411. <<NOTE: Congenital Heart Futures Act. 42 USC 201
            note.>> PROGRAMS RELATING TO CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE.

    (a) Short Title.--This subtitle may be cited as the ``Congenital
Heart Futures Act''.
    (b) Programs Relating to Congenital Heart Disease.--
            (1) National congenital heart disease surveillance system.--
        Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
        280g et seq.), as amended by section 5405, is further amended by
        adding at the end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 989]]

``SEC. 399V-2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 280g-13.>> NATIONAL CONGENITAL HEART
            DISEASE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may--
            ``(1) enhance and expand infrastructure to track the
        epidemiology of congenital heart disease and to organize such
        information into a nationally-representative, population-based
        surveillance system that compiles data concerning actual
        occurrences of congenital heart disease, to be known as the
        `National Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance System'; or
            ``(2) award a grant to one eligible entity to undertake the
        activities described in paragraph (1).

    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Congenital Heart Disease
Surveillance System shall be to facilitate further research into the
types of health services patients use and to identify possible areas for
educational outreach and prevention in accordance with standard
practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
    ``(c) Content.--The Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance System--
            ``(1) may include information concerning the incidence and
        prevalence of congenital heart disease in the United States;
            ``(2) may be used to collect and store data on congenital
        heart disease, including data concerning--
                    ``(A) demographic factors associated with congenital
                heart disease, such as age, race, ethnicity, sex, and
                family history of individuals who are diagnosed with the
                disease;
                    ``(B) risk factors associated with the disease;
                    ``(C) causation of the disease;
                    ``(D) treatment approaches; and
                    ``(E) outcome measures, such that analysis of the
                outcome measures will allow derivation of evidence-based
                best practices and guidelines for congenital heart
                disease patients; and
            ``(3) may ensure the collection and analysis of longitudinal
        data related to individuals of all ages with congenital heart
        disease, including infants, young children, adolescents, and
        adults of all ages.

    ``(d) Public Access.--The Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance
System shall be made available to the public, as appropriate, including
congenital heart disease researchers.
    ``(e) Patient Privacy.--The Secretary shall ensure that the
Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance System is maintained in a manner
that complies with the regulations promulgated under section 264 of the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
    ``(f) Eligibility for Grant.--To be eligible to receive a grant
under subsection (a)(2), an entity shall--
            ``(1) be a public or private nonprofit entity with
        specialized experience in congenital heart disease; and
            ``(2) submit to the Secretary an application at such time,
        in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary
        may require.''.
            (2) Congenital heart disease research.--Subpart 2 of part C
        of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285b et
        seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 990]]

``SEC. 425. <<NOTE: 42 USC 285b-8.>> CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Director of the Institute may expand,
intensify, and coordinate research and related activities of the
Institute with respect to congenital heart disease, which may include
congenital heart disease research with respect to--
            ``(1) causation of congenital heart disease, including
        genetic causes;
            ``(2) long-term outcomes in individuals with congenital
        heart disease, including infants, children, teenagers, adults,
        and elderly individuals;
            ``(3) diagnosis, treatment, and prevention;
            ``(4) studies using longitudinal data and retrospective
        analysis to identify effective treatments and outcomes for
        individuals with congenital heart disease; and
            ``(5) identifying barriers to life-long care for individuals
        with congenital heart disease.

    ``(b) Coordination of Research Activities.--The Director of the
Institute may coordinate research efforts related to congenital heart
disease among multiple research institutions and may develop research
networks.
    ``(c) Minority and Medically Underserved Communities.--In carrying
out the activities described in this section, the Director of the
Institute shall consider the application of such research and other
activities to minority and medically underserved communities.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out the amendments made by this section such sums
as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015.

SEC. 10412. AUTOMATED DEFIBRILLATION IN ADAM'S MEMORY ACT.

    Section 312 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 244) is
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(6), after ``clearinghouse'' insert ``,
        that shall be administered by an organization that has
        substantial expertise in pediatric education, pediatric
        medicine, and electrophysiology and sudden death,''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (e), by striking
        ``fiscal year 2003'' and all that follows through ``2006'' and
        inserting ``for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2014''.

SEC. 10413. <<NOTE: Young Women's Breast Health Education and Awareness
            Requires Learning Young Act of 2009. 42 USC 201
            note.>> YOUNG WOMEN'S BREAST HEALTH AWARENESS AND SUPPORT OF
            YOUNG WOMEN DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Young Women's
Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act of
2009'' or the ``EARLY Act''.
    (b) Amendment.--Title III of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 241 et seq.), as amended by this Act, is further amended by
adding at the end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 991]]

         ``PART V--PROGRAMS RELATING TO BREAST HEALTH AND CANCER

``SEC. 399NN. <<NOTE: 42 USC 280m.>> YOUNG WOMEN'S BREAST HEALTH
            AWARENESS AND SUPPORT OF YOUNG WOMEN DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST
            CANCER.

    ``(a) Public Education Campaign.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the
        Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
        shall conduct a national evidence-based education campaign to
        increase awareness of young women's knowledge regarding--
                    ``(A) breast health in young women of all racial,
                ethnic, and cultural backgrounds;
                    ``(B) breast awareness and good breast health
                habits;
                    ``(C) the occurrence of breast cancer and the
                general and specific risk factors in women who may be at
                high risk for breast cancer based on familial, racial,
                ethnic, and cultural backgrounds such as Ashkenazi
                Jewish populations;
                    ``(D) evidence-based information that would
                encourage young women and their health care professional
                to increase early detection of breast cancers; and
                    ``(E) the availability of health information and
                other resources for young women diagnosed with breast
                cancer.
            ``(2) Evidence-based, age appropriate messages.--The
        campaign shall provide evidence-based, age-appropriate messages
        and materials as developed by the Centers for Disease Control
        and Prevention and the Advisory Committee established under
        paragraph (4).
            ``(3) Media campaign.-- <<NOTE: Grants.>> In conducting the
        education campaign under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
        award grants to entities to establish national multimedia
        campaigns oriented to young women that may include advertising
        through television, radio, print media, billboards, posters, all
        forms of existing and especially emerging social networking
        media, other Internet media, and any other medium determined
        appropriate by the Secretary.
            ``(4) Advisory committee.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later
                than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this
                section, the Secretary, acting through the Director of
                the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall
                establish an advisory committee to assist in creating
                and conducting the education campaigns under paragraph
                (1) and subsection (b)(1).
                    ``(B) Membership.-- <<NOTE: Appointment.>> The
                Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers
                for Disease Control and Prevention, shall appoint to the
                advisory committee under subparagraph (A) such members
                as deemed necessary to properly advise the Secretary,
                and shall include organizations and individuals with
                expertise in breast cancer, disease prevention, early
                detection, diagnosis, public health, social marketing,
                genetic screening and counseling, treatment,
                rehabilitation, palliative care, and survivorship in
                young women.

    ``(b) Health Care Professional Education Campaign.--The Secretary,
acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease

[[Page 124 STAT. 992]]

Control and Prevention, and in consultation with the Administrator of
the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall conduct an
education campaign among physicians and other health care professionals
to increase awareness--
            ``(1) of breast health, symptoms, and early diagnosis and
        treatment of breast cancer in young women, including specific
        risk factors such as family history of cancer and women that may
        be at high risk for breast cancer, such as Ashkenazi Jewish
        population;
            ``(2) on how to provide counseling to young women about
        their breast health, including knowledge of their family cancer
        history and importance of providing regular clinical breast
        examinations;
            ``(3) concerning the importance of discussing healthy
        behaviors, and increasing awareness of services and programs
        available to address overall health and wellness, and making
        patient referrals to address tobacco cessation, good nutrition,
        and physical activity;
            ``(4) on when to refer patients to a health care provider
        with genetics expertise;
            ``(5) on how to provide counseling that addresses long-term
        survivorship and health concerns of young women diagnosed with
        breast cancer; and
            ``(6) on when to provide referrals to organizations and
        institutions that provide credible health information and
        substantive assistance and support to young women diagnosed with
        breast cancer.

    ``(c) Prevention Research Activities.--The Secretary, acting
through--
            ``(1) the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and
        Prevention, shall conduct prevention research on breast cancer
        in younger women, including--
                    ``(A) behavioral, survivorship studies, and other
                research on the impact of breast cancer diagnosis on
                young women;
                    ``(B) formative research to assist with the
                development of educational messages and information for
                the public, targeted populations, and their families
                about breast health, breast cancer, and healthy
                lifestyles;
                    ``(C) testing and evaluating existing and new social
                marketing strategies targeted at young women; and
                    ``(D) surveys of health care providers and the
                public regarding knowledge, attitudes, and practices
                related to breast health and breast cancer prevention
                and control in high-risk populations; and
            ``(2) the Director of the National Institutes of Health,
        shall conduct research to develop and validate new screening
        tests and methods for prevention and early detection of breast
        cancer in young women.

    ``(d) Support for Young Women Diagnosed With Breast Cancer.--
            ``(1) In general.-- <<NOTE: Grants.>> The Secretary shall
        award grants to organizations and institutions to provide health
        information from credible sources and substantive assistance
        directed to young women diagnosed with breast cancer and pre-
        neoplastic breast diseases.

[[Page 124 STAT. 993]]

            ``(2) Priority.--In making grants under paragraph (1), the
        Secretary shall give priority to applicants that deal
        specifically with young women diagnosed with breast cancer and
        pre-neoplastic breast disease.

    ``(e) No Duplication of Effort.--In conducting an education campaign
or other program under subsections (a), (b), (c), or (d), the Secretary
shall avoid duplicating other existing Federal breast cancer education
efforts.
    ``(f) Measurement; Reporting.--The Secretary, acting through the
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall--
            ``(1) measure--
                    ``(A) young women's awareness regarding breast
                health, including knowledge of family cancer history,
                specific risk factors and early warning signs, and young
                women's proactive efforts at early detection;
                    ``(B) the number or percentage of young women
                utilizing information regarding lifestyle interventions
                that foster healthy behaviors;
                    ``(C) the number or percentage of young women
                receiving regular clinical breast exams; and
                    ``(D) the number or percentage of young women who
                perform breast self exams, and the frequency of such
                exams, before the implementation of this section;
            ``(2) not less than every 3 years, measure the impact of
        such activities; and
            ``(3) submit reports to the Congress on the results of such
        measurements.

    ``(g) Definition.--In this section, the term `young women' means
women 15 to 44 years of age.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out subsections
(a), (b), (c)(1), and (d), there are authorized to be appropriated
$9,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014.''.

               Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Title V

SEC. 10501. AMENDMENTS TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT, THE SOCIAL
            SECURITY ACT, AND TITLE V OF THIS ACT.

    (a) Section 5101 of this Act <<NOTE: 42 USC 294q.>> is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(II), by inserting ``,
        including representatives of small business and self-employed
        individuals'' after ``employers'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(4)(A)--
                    (A) by redesignating clause (iv) as clause (v); and
                    (B) by inserting after clause (iii) the following:
                          ``(iv) An analysis of, and recommendations
                      for, eliminating the barriers to entering and
                      staying in primary care, including provider
                      compensation.''; and
            (3) in subsection (i)(2)(B), by inserting ``optometrists,
        ophthalmologists,'' after ``occupational therapists,''.

    (b) Subtitle B of title V of this Act is amended by adding at the
end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 994]]

``SEC. 5104. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE TO ASSESS AND IMPROVE ACCESS TO
            HEALTH CARE IN THE STATE OF ALASKA.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a task force to be known
as the `Interagency Access to Health Care in Alaska Task Force'
(referred to in this section as the `Task Force').
    ``(b) Duties.--The Task Force shall--
            ``(1) assess access to health care for beneficiaries of
        Federal health care systems in Alaska; and
            ``(2) develop a strategy for the Federal Government to
        improve delivery of health care to Federal beneficiaries in the
        State of Alaska.

    ``(c) Membership.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Task Force shall be
comprised of Federal members who shall be appointed, not later than 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act, as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
        appoint one representative of each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Department of Health and Human Services.
                    ``(B) The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
                Services.
                    ``(C) The Indian Health Service.
            ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall appoint one
        representative of the TRICARE Management Activity.
            ``(3) The Secretary of the Army shall appoint one
        representative of the Army Medical Department.
            ``(4) The Secretary of the Air Force shall appoint one
        representative of the Air Force, from among officers at the Air
        Force performing medical service functions.
            ``(5) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall appoint one
        representative of each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Department of Veterans Affairs.
                    ``(B) The Veterans Health Administration.
            ``(6) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall appoint one
        representative of the United States Coast Guard.

    ``(d) Chairperson.--One chairperson of the Task Force shall be
appointed by the Secretary at the time of appointment of members under
subsection (c), selected from among the members appointed under
paragraph (1).
    ``(e) Meetings.--The Task Force shall meet at the call of the
chairperson.
    ``(f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act, the Task Force shall submit to Congress a report detailing
the activities of the Task Force and containing the findings,
strategies, recommendations, policies, and initiatives developed
pursuant to the duty described in subsection (b)(2). In preparing such
report, the Task Force shall consider completed and ongoing efforts by
Federal agencies to improve access to health care in the State of
Alaska.
    ``(g) Termination.--The Task Force shall be terminated on the date
of submission of the report described in subsection (f).''.
    (c) Section 399V of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
section 5313, <<NOTE: 42 USC 280g-11.>> is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ``identify, educate,
        refer, and enroll'' and inserting ``identify and refer''; and
            (2) in subsection (k)(1), by striking ``, as defined by the
        Department of Labor as Standard Occupational Classification [21-
        1094]''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 995]]

    (d) Section 738(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
293b(a)(3)) is amended by inserting ``schools offering physician
assistant education programs,'' after ``public health,''.
    (e) Subtitle D of title V of this Act is amended by adding at the
end the following:

``SEC. 5316. <<NOTE: 42 USC 296j-1.>> DEMONSTRATION GRANTS FOR FAMILY
            NURSE PRACTITIONER TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of Health and Human
Services (referred to in this section as the `Secretary') shall
establish a training demonstration program for family nurse
practitioners (referred to in this section as the `program') to employ
and provide 1-year training for nurse practitioners who have graduated
from a nurse practitioner program for careers as primary care providers
in Federally qualified health centers (referred to in this section as
`FQHCs') and nurse-managed health clinics (referred to in this section
as `NMHCs').
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the program is to enable each grant
recipient to--
            ``(1) provide new nurse practitioners with clinical training
        to enable them to serve as primary care providers in FQHCs and
        NMHCs;
            ``(2) train new nurse practitioners to work under a model of
        primary care that is consistent with the principles set forth by
        the Institute of Medicine and the needs of vulnerable
        populations; and
            ``(3) create a model of FQHC and NMHC training for nurse
        practitioners that may be replicated nationwide.

    ``(c) Grants.--The Secretary shall award 3-year grants to eligible
entities that meet the requirements established by the Secretary, for
the purpose of operating the nurse practitioner primary care programs
described in subsection (a) in such entities.
    ``(d) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant under
this section, an entity shall--
            ``(1)(A) be a FQHC as defined in section 1861(aa) of the
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa)); or
            ``(B) be a nurse-managed health clinic, as defined in
        section 330A-1 of the Public Health Service Act (as added by
        section 5208 of this Act); and
            ``(2) submit to the Secretary an application at such time,
        in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary
        may require.

    ``(e) Priority in Awarding Grants.--In awarding grants under this
section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that--
            ``(1) demonstrate sufficient infrastructure in size, scope,
        and capacity to undertake the requisite training of a minimum of
        3 nurse practitioners per year, and to provide to each awardee
        12 full months of full-time, paid employment and benefits
        consistent with the benefits offered to other full-time
        employees of such entity;
            ``(2) will assign not less than 1 staff nurse practitioner
        or physician to each of 4 precepted clinics;
            ``(3) will provide to each awardee specialty rotations,
        including specialty training in prenatal care and women's
        health, adult and child psychiatry, orthopedics, geriatrics, and
        at least 3 other high-volume, high-burden specialty areas;

[[Page 124 STAT. 996]]

            ``(4) provide sessions on high-volume, high-risk health
        problems and have a record of training health care professionals
        in the care of children, older adults, and underserved
        populations; and
            ``(5) collaborate with other safety net providers, schools,
        colleges, and universities that provide health professions
        training.

    ``(f) Eligibility of Nurse Practitioners.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be eligible for acceptance to a
        program funded through a grant awarded under this section, an
        individual shall--
                    ``(A) be licensed or eligible for licensure in the
                State in which the program is located as an advanced
                practice registered nurse or advanced practice nurse and
                be eligible or board-certified as a family nurse
                practitioner; and
                    ``(B) demonstrate commitment to a career as a
                primary care provider in a FQHC or in a NMHC.
            ``(2) Preference.--In selecting awardees under the program,
        each grant recipient shall give preference to bilingual
        candidates that meet the requirements described in paragraph
        (1).
            ``(3) Deferral of certain service.--The starting date of
        required service of individuals in the National Health Service
        Corps Service program under title II of the Public Health
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 202 et seq.) who receive training under
        this section shall be deferred until the date that is 22 days
        after the date of completion of the program.

    ``(g) Grant Amount.--Each grant awarded under this section shall be
in an amount not to exceed $600,000 per year. A grant recipient may
carry over funds from 1 fiscal year to another without obtaining
approval from the Secretary.
    ``(h) Technical Assistance Grants.--The Secretary may award
technical assistance grants to 1 or more FQHCs or NMHCs that have
demonstrated expertise in establishing a nurse practitioner residency
training program. Such technical assistance grants shall be for the
purpose of providing technical assistance to other recipients of grants
under subsection (c).
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section,
there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for
each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014.''.
    (f)(1) Section 399W of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
section 5405, <<NOTE: 42 USC 280g-12.>> is redesignated as section 399V-
1.

    (2) Section 399V-1 of the Public Health Service Act, as so
redesignated, is amended in subsection (b)(2)(A) by striking ``and the
departments of 1 or more health professions schools in the State that
train providers in primary care'' and inserting ``and the departments
that train providers in primary care in 1 or more health professions
schools in the State''.
    (3) Section 934 of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
section 3501, <<NOTE: 42 USC 299b-34.>> is amended by striking ``399W''
each place such term appears and inserting ``399V-1''.

    (4) Section 935(b) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
section 3503, <<NOTE: 42 USC 299b-35.>> is amended by striking ``399W''
and inserting ``399V-1''.

    (g) Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act 42 U.S.C.
280g et seq.), as amended by section 10411, is amended by adding at the
end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 997]]

``SEC. 399V-3. <<NOTE: 42 USC 280g-14.>> NATIONAL DIABETES PREVENTION
            PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish a national
diabetes prevention program (referred to in this section as the
`program') targeted at adults at high risk for diabetes in order to
eliminate the preventable burden of diabetes.
    ``(b) Program Activities.--The program described in subsection (a)
shall include--
            ``(1) a grant program for community-based diabetes
        prevention program model sites;
            ``(2) a program within the Centers for Disease Control and
        Prevention to determine eligibility of entities to deliver
        community-based diabetes prevention services;
            ``(3) a training and outreach program for lifestyle
        intervention instructors; and
            ``(4) evaluation, monitoring and technical assistance, and
        applied research carried out by the Centers for Disease Control
        and Prevention.

    ``(c) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible for a grant under
subsection (b)(1), an entity shall be a State or local health
department, a tribal organization, a national network of community-based
non-profits focused on health and wellbeing, an academic institution, or
other entity, as the Secretary determines.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as
may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014.''.
    (h) The provisions of, and amendment made by, section 5501(c) of
this Act <<NOTE: Repeals. 42 USC 1395w-4.>> are repealed.

    (i)(1) The provisions of, and amendments made by, section 5502 of
this Act <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395m, 1395x and note. 42 USC 1395x.>> are
repealed.

    (2)(A) Section 1861(aa)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w(aa)(3)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(A) services of the type described in subparagraphs (A)
        through (C) of paragraph (1) and preventive services (as defined
        in section 1861(ddd)(3)); and''.

    (B) <<NOTE: Applicability. 42 USC 1395x note.>> The amendment made
by subparagraph (A) shall apply to services furnished on or after
January 1, 2011.

    (3)(A) Section 1834 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m), as
amended by section 4105, is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
    ``(o) Development and Implementation of Prospective Payment
System.--
            ``(1) Development.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall develop a
                prospective payment system for payment for Federally
                qualified health center services furnished by Federally
                qualified health centers under this title. Such system
                shall include a process for appropriately describing the
                services furnished by Federally qualified health centers
                and shall establish payment rates for specific payment
                codes based on such appropriate descriptions of
                services. Such system shall be established to take into
                account the type, intensity, and duration of services
                furnished by Federally qualified health centers. Such
                system may include adjustments, including geographic
                adjustments, determined appropriate by the Secretary.

[[Page 124 STAT. 998]]

                    ``(B) Collection of data and evaluation.--
                <<NOTE: Deadline.>> By not later than January 1, 2011,
                the Secretary shall require Federally qualified health
                centers to submit to the Secretary such information as
                the Secretary may require in order to develop and
                implement the prospective payment system under this
                subsection, including the reporting of services using
                HCPCS codes.
            ``(2) Implementation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding section
                1833(a)(3)(A), the Secretary shall provide, for cost
                reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2014,
                for payments of prospective payment rates for Federally
                qualified health center services furnished by Federally
                qualified health centers under this title in accordance
                with the prospective payment system developed by the
                Secretary under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Payments.--
                          ``(i) Initial payments.--The Secretary shall
                      implement such prospective payment system so that
                      the estimated aggregate amount of prospective
                      payment rates (determined prior to the application
                      of section 1833(a)(1)(Z)) under this title for
                      Federally qualified health center services in the
                      first year that such system is implemented is
                      equal to 100 percent of the estimated amount of
                      reasonable costs (determined without the
                      application of a per visit payment limit or
                      productivity screen and prior to the application
                      of section 1866(a)(2)(A)(ii)) that would have
                      occurred for such services under this title in
                      such year if the system had not been implemented.
                          ``(ii) Payments in subsequent years.--Payment
                      rates in years after the year of implementation of
                      such system shall be the payment rates in the
                      previous year increased--
                                    ``(I) in the first year after
                                implementation of such system, by the
                                percentage increase in the MEI (as
                                defined in section 1842(i)(3)) for the
                                year involved; and
                                    ``(II) in subsequent years, by the
                                percentage increase in a market basket
                                of Federally qualified health center
                                goods and services as promulgated
                                through regulations, or if such an index
                                is not available, by the percentage
                                increase in the MEI (as defined in
                                section 1842(i)(3)) for the year
                                involved.
                    ``(C) Preparation for pps implementation.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
                Secretary may establish and implement by program
                instruction or otherwise the payment codes to be used
                under the prospective payment system under this
                section.''.

    (B) Section 1833(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395l(a)(1)), as amended by section 4104, is amended--
            (i) by striking ``and'' before ``(Y)''; and
            (ii) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the
        following: ``, and (Z) with respect to Federally qualified
        health center services for which payment is made under section
        1834(o), the amounts paid shall be 80 percent of the lesser

[[Page 124 STAT. 999]]

        of the actual charge or the amount determined under such
        section''.

    (C) Section 1833(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(a))
is amended--
            (i) in paragraph (3)(B)(i)--
                    (I) by inserting ``(I)'' after ``otherwise been
                provided''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``, or (II) in the case of such
                services furnished on or after the implementation date
                of the prospective payment system under section 1834(o),
                under such section (calculated as if `100 percent' were
                substituted for `80 percent' in such section) for such
                services if the individual had not been so enrolled''
                after ``been so enrolled''; and
            (ii) by adding at the end the following flush sentence:
        ``Paragraph (3)(A) shall not apply to Federally qualified health
        center services furnished on or after the implementation date of
        the prospective payment system under section 1834(0).''.

    (j) Section 5505 <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395ww note.>> is amended by adding
at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall not be
applied in a manner that requires reopening of any settled cost reports
as to which there is not a jurisdictionally proper appeal pending as of
the date of the enactment of this Act on the issue of payment for
indirect costs of medical education under section 1886(d)(5)(B) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(5)(B)) or for direct graduate
medical education costs under section 1886(h) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1395ww(h)).''.
    (k) Subtitle G of title V of this Act is amended by adding at the
end the following:

``SEC. 5606. <<NOTE: 42 USC 254b-1.>> STATE GRANTS TO HEALTH CARE
            PROVIDERS WHO PROVIDE SERVICES TO A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF
            MEDICALLY UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS OR OTHER SPECIAL
            POPULATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--A State may award grants to health care providers
who treat a high percentage, as determined by such State, of medically
underserved populations or other special populations in such State.
    ``(b) Source of Funds.--A grant program established by a State under
subsection (a) may not be established within a department, agency, or
other entity of such State that administers the Medicaid program under
title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), and no
Federal or State funds allocated to such Medicaid program, the Medicare
program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et
seq.), or the TRICARE program under chapter 55 of title 10, United
States Code, may be used to award grants or to pay administrative costs
associated with a grant program established under subsection (a).''.
    (l) Part C of title VII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
293k et seq.) is amended--
            (1) after the part heading, by inserting the following:

               ``Subpart I--Medical Training Generally'';

        and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 1000]]

            ``Subpart II--Training in Underserved Communities

``SEC. 749B. <<NOTE: 42 USC 293m.>> RURAL PHYSICIAN TRAINING GRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator
of the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall establish a
grant program for the purposes of assisting eligible entities in
recruiting students most likely to practice medicine in underserved
rural communities, providing rural-focused training and experience, and
increasing the number of recent allopathic and osteopathic medical
school graduates who practice in underserved rural communities.
    ``(b) Eligible Entities.--In order to be eligible to receive a grant
under this section, an entity shall--
            ``(1) be a school of allopathic or osteopathic medicine
        accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or
        association approved by the Secretary for this purpose, or any
        combination or consortium of such schools; and
            ``(2) submit an application to the Secretary that includes a
        certification that such entity will use amounts provided to the
        institution as described in subsection (d)(1).

    ``(c) Priority.--In awarding grant funds under this section, the
Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that--
            ``(1) demonstrate a record of successfully training
        students, as determined by the Secretary, who practice medicine
        in underserved rural communities;
            ``(2) demonstrate that an existing academic program of the
        eligible entity produces a high percentage, as determined by the
        Secretary, of graduates from such program who practice medicine
        in underserved rural communities;
            ``(3) demonstrate rural community institutional
        partnerships, through such mechanisms as matching or
        contributory funding, documented in-kind services for
        implementation, or existence of training partners with
        interprofessional expertise in community health center training
        locations or other similar facilities; or
            ``(4) submit, as part of the application of the entity under
        subsection (b), a plan for the long-term tracking of where the
        graduates of such entity practice medicine.

    ``(d) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--An eligible entity receiving a grant
        under this section shall use the funds made available under such
        grant to establish, improve, or expand a rural-focused training
        program (referred to in this section as the `Program') meeting
        the requirements described in this subsection and to carry out